Hi and welcome to How to Install Blender!
So in this particular video, we'll be going to where to download Blender
from, so you get the official copy. We'll be installing Blender
to the computer. We'll be checking which version you have as well,
so if you've already got it installed, we'll be able to see which version that
is and see whether you need to get the latest version. Now, the latest version at the moment,
at the recording time of this video, is 2.77. So you're going to need
version 2.77 or later, to make sure that what I'm doing and what
you're doing are going to match up and correlate. Now, it's very important,
as I go through these, that you're focused on what I am
doing. That can be very difficult to follow a screen and
not having to pause the video every 2 seconds. I tend to talk quite
slowly, especially in these early lectures you so guys can follow what's going
on clearly. But it is a great idea to watch the video, and
then, I'm going to give you a challenge. And when I give you the challenge, then of course
if necessary, you can go back and pause and come back and forth and back and forth. That's
absolutely fine! But I would recommend actually just watching these first
few minutes, so that you guys can see what's going to happen, and then, when the
challenge comes, of course, go ahead and do it! So let's go ahead,
first of all, and see where to download Blender from. OK,
so I have opened up a browser and gone to
www.blender.org. And here, there are a couple of places
you could go to. You could go to the Download link at the top or the big blue Download
button down here. Blender 2.77! So if I go ahead
and click on that, it takes us to the Download page. So we've got www.blender.org
/download. If I scroll down this page,
we can see that the latest was released only a few days ago. Well,
it's now the 22nd and it was March 19th, so brilliant! This is a new version for me as
well, so we get to do a live install! Nothing can go wrong here, hey guys!
So if we scroll down, we can see the versions for Windows
there, and we can see the version for Mac. And if we scroll down a little more,
we've got Mm for Linux as well. So you'll need to pick the version
that's applicable to your platform. I'm running a Mac, as you'll probably notice
here, and I'll be going through soon the similarities and differences between these
particular platforms. Most of the time there are no differences,
just a different keyboard layout basically. OK, so I'm going to go
ahead and click on one of these links, and that's going to start downloading!
Now, it's great that this says it right in front of us, what I was going to say!
Blender is free software and it's free to use for any purposes.
Now the great thing about it is, it' really just a, it is a suit
of packages. It's a 3D modeling package, it's a sculpting package, it's
a compositor, it's a renderer! It does so much! It does VFX, it does
animation! There's pretty much nothing it can't do. So it's wonderful
and it's a great tool to use, and I'm really excited and really looking forward to seeing
what you guys can create with it, as well. So let's just have a look and
see at the features, while we're just waiting for this to download here. Now,
it's going to take you a while to get to this level here, even with this orange, lemon, and
lime on there. This photorealistic rendering, fast modeling, realistic
materials, fast rigging, animation, all of these things are absolutely
wonderful! And I must hammer it home, at this point, that you
guys are going to get the most out of this course, when you put the most in.
Now, I'm not going to be able to teach you every little nitty gritty thing, but I will be
teaching you the basics, all the way up to some more advanced stuff. But I would
really like it if you guys would take it upon yourselves to,
after a particular section has finished or even after a particular lecture has
finished, you practice that skill that we've just learned because that is really
important. There is no substitution for repetition. The mother
of all skill is repetition. So if after I asked
you to model, let's say a kitchen cup, we'll go out and make
a plate and a bowl, you know nice simple things. Don't go out of your way to go make
a car or a plane. I mean those are great things to model,
but a cup may be one or two parts, a plane or a car might be
hundreds of parts to make that. So let's make things nice and simple
for ourselves and make sure we can win. If we set ourselves a challenge, let's make sure we
can win that challenge. OK, I've noticed so now that the download has finished.
I'm going to go ahead and click on that download, and it's going
to extract, which is absolutely fine. And then, I'm going to go ahead
and drag the folder to my
Applications. It will be slightly different on a
PC or a Linux Box. I can't see Applications. There it is! OK,
so now that's in my Applications. I'm going to go find it and just create a shortcut on
my computer for it, so I can come back to it at any time.
OK, so let's go ahead and open that! Oh, it appears I already have an
instance of it open! So let's go ahead and open!
Now, of course, you may get a security warning
on any platform, when you first open up a file. Of course, if we've downloaded
it from Blender.org, I'm absolutely happy with that, so I'm going to Open
that up. And we're presented with this splash screen in front of us, which quite
clearly says Blender 2.77! However, if you're a bit click
happy, I tend to be occasionally, you may have that disappear,
but that's not to worry, because we can still see the version number. It's
right in front of us. If we look at the very top of Blender, we
have this particular bar here that's called the Info
Window. We'll use that in a future lecture, or lots of future lectures, because
it's where you have File, new, open, open recent, all those sort
of familiar things you're used to. You'll notice that you don't have a
File, Edit, Tools menu and all those other things that you would generally have with
a program. Now this is the same across all platforms, so
this is great! It means you can switch from a Mac to a PC, and have to learn nothing
new. It's great! Now, if we go all the way along this bar,
we can see it says version 2.77, which is great!
And we can go ahead and click on the little Blender icon there and it'll open up this splash
screen again. So there we go, we've got the version. We've got it
installed on the computer, and of course, I've got a challenge for you!
OK, I'd like you to go ahead and install
Blender. So go to www.glender.org
/download/ Download the latest version of Blender.
Now, of course, I'm using 2.77 in this particular video,
but the versions of Blender tend to iterate relatively quickly, so
you might be on 2.8 by the time you've watched this video. Don't worry,
that will be the latest version of Blender. Install it
on your computer. So this is going to be one of these lectures now where I'm not
going to ask you to pause the video. I will simply let you go ahead and
install it on your computer, and I will see you guys in the next lecture.